---
title: Static Site Architecture
description: "Please turn on your magic beam..."
author: Joe Fraley
date: 2016-09-23
id: 3
tags: tech, architecture, site, website
---
Here's a post about how this site is structured internally. In another post I'll describe building the site step-by-step, but here I just want to cover the general architecture and the design philosophy.  

## What's the Stack?  
The site is "doubly-static", which means nothing is computed before serving AND the client does not receive any JavaScript for dynamic stuff at runtime. It's just a bunch of pre-rendered HTML files with CSS and images.

But in development the site is a full React hierarchy. A simple entry-point on the back-end connects URLs with React components, which all have arbitrary React component hierarchies of their own. For example, the Homepage consumes `<BlogPost/>` components, `<ListOfPosts />` components, and all kinds of other stuff for convenience.

I lean on a few big Webpack plugins to hit the entry point before deployment and it renders the entire React tree as static markup. The conversion from dynamic routes to a static server file hierarchy is handled by  `static-site-generator-webpack-plugin`, but the rest is just clever ReactDOM stuff.

Using Webpack to generate the ultimate architecture buys me a bunch of other great developer conveniences. For example, the components define their own styles using CSS Modules. Blog posts are written in Markdown and converted after the fact. That makes it really easy to port the site somewhere else for one thing. But it also means metadata can be tracked using front-matter and all sorts of neat stuff like that.

Code highlighting is handled by highlight.js, for which there's an awesome Webpack loader that I plug into my markdown chain: highlight-loader. That puts all the highlight.js class names in place, at which point I just hit a CDN for a highlight theme that I like and plop that into the head of any blog post pages.

Deployment is handled using the dead simple Firebase CLI. Firebase gzips everything internally, so I don't need to worry about compression or any of that during deployment or development.

I also get all the modern conveniences of ES20** by plugging a Babel step into the build process.

## Why'd I Bother?
My friend Matt Drouhard and several of my former Idealist.org colleagues really got me thinking about accessibility, performance, and responsiveness on the web. We write these insane client-side apps that ship huge 4mb code buckets to mobile devices over 3G, and we still end up hyper limited by browser implementations, legacy support, and people without access to or interest in JavaScript enabled browsing.

I mean...that's crazy! What are they for? Why are we doing this? If these huge apps don't buy us improved security, better compatibility, or broader accessibility, what's the point? It feels like all of this energy goes toward a marginally improved experience for just one certain kind of person. That's exactly the _opposite_ of what the internet is about!

So I took a cue from web dev luminaries like Scott Jehl and Jeremy Keith and started thinking about how to narrow my focus. How could I build a website that conformed with my ideas about the internet itself? What's the best way to build something as universally accessible, easily shared, and highly performant as possible? How can I build a great user experience for _the greatest possible number of people_?

Well you can start by not shipping users a bunch of shit they don't need and didn't ask for. But coming from a world of JS-web-apps, I knew I would miss the tooling I loved. I've done plenty of non-profit volunteer work editing copy in HTML files, repeating myself over and over, digging through massive CSS files looking for the right selector, being unsure what was really important to the one piece of the site I wanted to change at that time.

In short, I wanted to stop shipping JavaScript, but not stop _writing_ JavaScript. I knew I could write a server to handle a lot of that logic, but pushing concerns to the server doesn't solve much. You trade big client files for long wait times while your server figures its shit out. You trade front-end optimizations for optimizations of server provisioning. You give up all the simple, free deployment services (like gh-pages and Firebase) just so you can render templates. Most of that stuff is harder and less interesting than what we're doing in front-end JS now, and the return on investment is pretty poor. You couple your site delivery to the end user experience, and you take on water and technical debt.

Altering server code has much higher stakes than client-code, since it takes time to propagate and is harder to deploy - rollbacks are much slower. In a non-profit space, that means you limit the quality and number of volunteers you could draw on, and you burden them and yourselves with more risk and more challenging rewrites.

**All of that sucks**

But if you could build your static site manually using a single file entry point? Then none of that would matter. Using any front-end tooling (even just plain ol' DOM API's and JS), you could render out a complete static file-hierarchy in HTML. Then you're able to skip buggy, high risk server code, take advantage of high quality Backend-as-a-Service offerings, write in the modern front-end environment you like, and still ship highly performant, accessible static pages.

💥⚡️💣

The architecture does have a built-in switch for progressive enhancement - like client-side rendering and routing. Basically, our entry point has this check:

```javascript
// src/index.js --- an arbitrary entry point in our webpack config
if (typeof document !== undefined) {
  // Do fancy client-side javascript
}

export default (locals, callback) => {
  // We're not in the browser, so just render your static markup
}
```

With just a little attention to detail, you can write a React app (or an Elm app, or a Backbone app, or _whatever_) that will safely render as static markup on the server, but you can ship the JS file out as a bundle and have it render on the client, too. So for example, react-router lets you define URL mapping. At build time, you can render those routes out as a file hierarchy, and none of those pages need to know about react-router anymore. They don't even need a `<script>` tag in the end. So they'll be nicely rendered for people without JS.

But if you _do_ want to client-side routing for people on a fast connection, just include a `<script>` tag referencing the Webpack output bundle for your app in your template file. Then you can `ReactDOM.render()` inside the `if (typeof document !== undefined)` check. The client will safely understand that it should do all the real fancy React stuff now.

💥⚡️💣

You can read up more about that switch in the [`static-site-generator-webpack-plugin` documentation](https://github.com/markdalgleish/static-site-generator-webpack-plugin).
