---
title: Mozilla Tech Screen for Front-End Engineers
description: "I don't care, I have no luck..."
author: Joe Fraley
date: 2016-09-13
id: 2
tags: tech, interview, code-challenge, screen, mozilla, front-end, firefox
---
There's no reason for *employees* to keep the details of their interviews and tech screens secret. Once you've completed a coding-challenge, there's nothing more you can do, that position will likely be filled immediately. There's no competitive advantage in hoarding your knowledge during any *particular application*. The company will not reward you in any tangible way for secrecy.

Of course *employers* will want to keep these details secret. The whole idea of code-challenges and tech-screens depends on catching people blind. The industry is grasping at straws for ways to objectively - and more important, *cheaply* - measure the quality of their applicants. These anonymous challenges are the cheapest thing in terms of time and energy from their current staff — which are by far the most expensive costs any company has.

But the fact that *they* want it kept secret doesn't mean *we* should, too. The current system of applicant screening is an obvious failure. It has not improved racial or gender diversity across the industry. It has not improved diversity of ideas or backgrounds. It does not guarantee that qualified applicants will promptly continue in the hiring process, nor that they will ultimately be hired. It doesn't broaden the bell-curve of candidates - companies are as likely to hire very poor candidates as very skilled ones, while they are no more likely to hire candidates safely in-between.

Just as important, the system fails candidates. Candidates do not receive meaningful feedback about their rejections, or suggestions for improvement. They're rarely informed of any reason *at all* for a company's final decision. It's just as time-consuming for candidates, but *less* time-consuming for companies, deferring more of the risk and cost to applicants than to the hiring firm. That's just an arbitrary advantage to the company in the arrangement, despite *both* company *and* candidate benefitting equally from an agreement. I could go on, but if you're reading this, then I'm sure you've no need.

I recently applied for a job as a front-end engineer at Mozilla, which I'm *very* excited about. Here are the questions that were asked during my anonymized tech-screen. I was given 2 hours:

## Questions
**1. <a name="q1"></a>What is the order of CSS shorthand order for properties like margin, padding, etc.?**  
PICK ONE OF THE CHOICES ([Jump to answer](#a1))  
  A. *left right top bottom*  
  B. *top right bottom left*  
  C. *right left top bottom*  
  D. *top bottom left right*  

**2. <a name="q2"></a>Given a hidden DIV, what CSS code would best accomplish fading the DIV in when the "show" class is added?**  
PICK ONE OF THE CHOICES ([Jump to answer](#a2))  
A. `div { opacity: 0; transition: opacity 1s;} div.show { opacity: 1;}`  
B. `div { opacity: 0;} div.show { transition: opacity 1s; opacity: 1;}`  
C. `div.show { easing: fade-in }`  
D. `div { opacity: 0;} div.show { opacity: 1; transform: opacity 1s;}`  

**3. <a name="q3"></a>Consider the following Javascript function:**
```javascript
function foo() {
  return 5;
}
```
**What will the following code do?**
```javascript
var myVar = foo;
```
PICK ONE OF THE FOLLOWING CHOICES ([Jump to answer](#a3))  
A. Assign the integer `5` to the variable `myVar`  
B. Assign the function `foo` to the variable `myVar`  
C. Throw an exception  
D. Do nothing  

**4. <a name="q4"></a>Which of the following selectors would match a DIV with the class name "bad-error-list"?**  
PICK ONE OF THE FOLLOWING CHOICES ([Jump to answer](#a4))  
A. `div[class*="error"]`  
B. `div[class^="error"]`  
C. `div[class$="error"]`  
D. `div[class#="error"]`  

**5. <a name="q5"></a>Which media query would match a current browser width of 800px?**  
PICK ONE OF THE FOLLOWING CHOICES ([Jump to answer](#a5))  
A. `@media (max-width:400px) and (min-width:900px)`  
B. `@media (max-width:900px) and (min-width:400px)`  
C. `@media (max-width:900) and (min-width:400)`  
D. `@media (max-width:900px) && (min-width:400px)`  

**6. <a name="q6"></a>Write Javascript which will cause the contents of a list item to be alerted when it is clicked:**  
  \* No CSS or HTML changes are required.  
  \* Your solution should be performant and scale to very large numbers of list items, including frequent additions and removals.  
  \* Your solution should also account for the possibility of complex list items with their own descendants.  
**Given HTML:**
```html
<ul id="parent-list">
  <li id="item-1">Item 1</li>
  <li id="item-2">Item 2</li>
  <li id="item-3">Item 3</li>
  <li id="item-4">Item 4</li>
  <li id="item-5">Item 5</li>
  <li id="item-6">Item 6</li>
  <li id="item-7">Item 7</li>
  <li id="item-8">Item 8</li>
  <li id="item-9">Item 9</li>
</ul>
```  
([Jump to answer](#a6))
**7. <a name="q7"></a>Write a function that parses an array of strings, and returns whether the braces are all matched. So `"{[()]}"` is good, and so is `"[](){}"`. But `"["` is bad, and so is `"[{]}"`.**  
([Jump to answer](#a7))

## My Answers
1. <a name="a1">(B), always go clock-wise for short-hand.</a>  
([Jump to question](#q1))
2. <a name="a2">(A)</a>. (C) looks like a weird jQuery red-herring, and there's no need for transforms as in (D). The trick between (A) and (B) is knowing how the transition will behave when the class is remove. Since (B) has the transition on the element *with* the class, the transition will not occur once the class is removed. Thus it will fade in, but jump out of existence abruptly when the class is removed.  
([Jump to question](#q2))
3. <a name="a3">(B)</a>. `foo` isn't called during assignment. Thus
```javascript
myVar = foo //the function itself
```
as opposed to
```javascript
myVar = foo() //the result of calling the function, 5
```
([Jump to question](#q3))
4. <a name="a4">(A)</a>. I had never seen selectors like this, so I popped over to MDN real quick and searched for "[class*=". They're just regex searches within classnames. (D)'s not real. (A) searches the class name for any instance of "error". (B) searches for classes *beginning* with "error", (C) searches for classes *ending* with "error". The desired class doesn't match with either (B) or (C). It would probably be better to rename your classes to use a more targeted selector.  
([Jump to question](#q4))  
5. <a name="a5">(B)</a>. This is just a matter of syntax and basic logic. 800 is smaller than 900 and bigger than 400. That means 900 is the max and 400 is the min. That rules out (A). (C) and (D) have syntax errors. (B) doesn't specify measurement units for its widths. (C) uses `&&` rather than `and`, confusing Javascript with CSS.  
([Jump to question](#q5))
6. This seemed really trivial at the time, but I now think I misunderstood the question. The third bullet point: "Your solution should also account for the possibility of complex list items with their own descendants." is ambiguous. Consider this HTML:
```html
<ul id="parent-list">
  <li id="item-1">
    <ul id="child-list1">
      <li id="item-2">Item 2</li>
    </ul>
    <ul id="child-list3">
      <li id="item-3">Item 3</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
```
Yes, that is bizarre markup. But if you click on `<li id="item-3">Item 3</li>`, what should be alerted?
Consider just a *few* possibilities:  
  \* `"Item 3"`  
  \* `"<li id="item-3">Item 3</li>"`  
  \* `"<ul id="child-list3"><li id="item-3">Item 3</li></ul>"`  
  \* `"<ul id="child-list2"><li id="item-2">Item 2</li></ul><ul id="child-list3"><li id="item-3">Item 3</li></ul>"`  
First is the contents of the most specific thing you clicked. Is this accounting for the descendants of `#item-1`? Depends what you're "accounting" for. Afterall, why would anyone want to be alerted with `<ul id="child-list2"><li id="item-2">Item 2</li></ul><ul id="child-list3"><li id="item-3">Item 3</li></ul>` when clicking on the visible element "Item 3"? This would *account* for the complexity of `#item-1` by *abstracting* that nested structure away from the end-user's experience. This is almost certainly how you would treat the issue in the real world.  
<a name="a6">But then the answer *is* trivial:</a>  
```javascript
document.getElementById('parent-list')
    .addEventListener('click', event => alert(event.target))
```
Tell the list to listen for clicks, and alert the most specific thing the user clicks inside the list. Accomplishing the other answers would be more complex. It would involve iterating over the list contents, declaring event bubbling rules, checking for nested structures, and so on. But again...the question is ambiguous, and there's only one imaginable use-case without more context.  
([Jump to question](#q6))
7. This is actually a really hard question. The hardest part is getting the right number and shape of data structure for each step of the function.

The best thing would be to write the function declaratively, using recursion. But recursion is very hard to think about while writing (the return on investment comes while *reading* well-written recursive code, because it is often so declarative by its nature). I spent most of my time trying to get the needed structure right in my head, but never succeeded. I was just too anxious under the clock. I've also found recursion to be one of those (many) things better suited for pair or mob-programming than isolation. Working together on a recursive loop usually makes the benefits more immediately apparent (since you're all reading it together at once), and unraveling recursion usually benefits from hearing it back or drawing it out.

<a name="a7">In the end I wrote a dumb for loop that did some janky, imperative array popping and goofy short-circuit logic.</a> It was very difficult to read and would have been a nightmare to rewrite / refactor.   
([Jump to question](#q7))
