---
title: Using AWS Lambda for API Calls
description: "I disconnect my heart, my head..."
author: Joe Fraley
date: 2016-10-15
id: 1
tags: tech, aws, lambda, api, promises, isomorphic, isomorphism, javascript, node
status: draft
---
I've been thinking a lot about isomorphism in web development. People commonly think of isomorphic apps as apps that run the same code in both a browser-client and backend-server environment. It's a little subtler than that.

> Isomorphic: related by an isomorphism

Oof, that's bad. An isomorphism is a special construct from mathematics. Think of it as a special bridge between two concepts - a translator that allows free exchange between different contexts. Don't read the wikipedia page on the subject unless you're hoping for a Lovecraftian awakening though...

So isomorphic JavaScript libraries can run in both browser and server environments, because they are properly internally bridged. The browser and the server are the two concepts, and the library code is the isomorphism that translates them for each other. Vanilla JavaScript libraries - like the Array methods from lodash - are automatically isomorphic because there is nothing to translate! lodash leverages the same native JavaScript tools in both the client and server. Arrays are identical in both places.

But other libraries are not _automatically_ isomorphic. Their isomorphism is not free. Take React for example. You can render React components on a server using `ReactDOM.renderToString` and `ReactDOM.renderToStaticMarkup`. That makes it possible to pre-render the basic structure of a page or response before sending it to the client, reducing load time and ensuring that the fundamental parts of your app are available to people with spotty JavaScript access in their browsers.
