---
title: New Year Goals
description: "It's always been a matter of trust..."
author: Joe Fraley
date: 2017-01-01
id: 2
tags: tech
status: public
---
There's lots of stuff I'm pretty excited about in tech this year.

1. GraphQL. I've seen the ugly side of REST while building Meridian. It just isn't equipped for programs that poll many diverse resource types. And GraphiQL is one of my favorite documentation/discovery tools.  
2. Inferno. React is amazing and fun, but I'm excited to use a different abstraction around the same idea and compare the two.  
3. Neo4j. Graphs are much more intuitive than any of the NoSQL formats I've used. I've really loved Firebase in the past, but two big things happened that soured it for me. First, it's not very nice to use isomorphically. Testing it is super hard. And frankly it's expensive and slow. Second, Pebble sold to Fitbit and gave me a good long pause about Backend-as-a-Service offerings altogether.  
4. A pure functional language. I've been really enjoying Ramda at work. Apparently people think OCaml is cool now. I had fun using Elm. I think I'll try my hand at Elixir. The person writing the Elixir GraphQL implementation goes to the GraphQL meetup in town, and he seemed really interesting. That might be a direction I can explore later.  
5. Vim. I'm really liking VS Code, but Mr. Robot makes it look so cool.  
6. Linux. I've loved OS X, but I'm ready to try something with a little more complexity. I'll probably keep using Mac casually because it has a lot of amazing apps in its ecosystem. I'm dual-booting Ubuntu for now.  
7. Redux-saga. I'm using it at work a little already, but I'd really like to see more.  
8. https://ryantsao.com/blog/virtual-css-with-styletron looks awesome. It seems to address a lot of the silly problems I've had organizing Webpack's default CSS modules to my liking.  
9. Arduino is probably good enough for me while ThingsSDK gets its shit figure out. I just don't have the patience to tinker with hardware and circuitry all alone.  

What are you excited to try in 2017?
